        Read all the instructions below before start the homework.
        
        If you need help, contact me by Wednesday, 2/22, using the class channel. Again, before that, make sure you read all instruction.
        I'm not going to be available Thursday, 2/23.

	Homework:
	
	1) In this part of the HW you will calculate bond distances using different levels of theory and basis sets.

 	Download and install Avogadro on your local machine. (http://avogadro.cc/)
	
	It's straightforward to draw molecules in Avogadro. Play around and have fun with it. There are tutorials on the website.
 
        You should draw the 4 molecules given in the .ppt file and compare the indicated bond distances from your calculation (see below) with the experimental values.

        In Avogadro you can perform an optimization of the structure you drew. Use GAFF and UFF and measure the bond distances.
	Use the conjugate gradient algorithm.
	
	Then, you can export a Gaussian input file. Go to Extensions and select Gaussian. For calculation choose Geometry Optimization. Format Cartesian. Output standard.
        The number of processors should be 8.	
        If there aren't any 8-cores nodes available when you start your calculation try 16-cores nodes. The .pbs file should be modified accordingly.  
        For charge and multiplicity I let you figure out the corrects values for each molecule by yourselves.

        You should perform an optimization using B3LYP, MP2, CCSD and M062X (which is not listed in Avogadro, but it's extremely easy to modify it in your .com file) combine each 4 methods with the
        5 basis set indicated in Avogadro (20 calculations for each molecule = 80 calculations in total).
        Once you have generated and exported all files for the different combinations copy them and the .pbs file to Hyak. It's a good practice to organize each series of calculations in folders. 
	(Tip, after generating some of them you can easily see that a script would do the job, as the main part of the files, the coordinates of each structure,
        are not changed only the level of the theory and basis set).

	You should obviously change the name of your .com files in the .pbs. 
	Once the calculations are successfully finished (figure it out) copy the .log files back to your local machine.

        (Avogadro can read Gaussian output files but I want you to use GaussView. After class I will come and help with its installation for those who do not have it yet.)

        Open the .log file in GaussView and measure the distances. 
	You should check the "Read Intermediate Geometries" option (this will be necessary for the next part)	        
        Compare with the given experimental references. Organize the values in tables. One table per basis set (5 tables). The values coming from force fields should be only in the STO-3G 
        basis set table.
        Your table should also include the calculation time. 

        Questions:
	What level of theory and basis set gave the best values, compared with the experimental one?
        What was the fastest calculation?

        2)  Let's learn some gnuplot.

	With GaussView and using your .log files, click in results then optimization. Export the data of the first graph (Total Energy) that appeared to an external file.

        Plot your proper graphs using gnuplot. Print screens will not be accepted. You can save your graph from gnuplot in several different formats. 
        The one and only Prof. Google knows how to do it. Ask him. 

        Also, ask him how to label your axes (energy should be in kcal/mol), choose nice color other them the ones by default, change thickness and give titles to your curves. 

	Plot a figure for each basis set with a curve per method (5 figures, 4 curves per figure). Use relative energies. 
	Tip: You can transform from Hartree to kcal/mol and have relative energies using gnuplot commands only.
        

        3) Prepare a list of all acronyms used in this HW and their meanings (Force fields, XC functionals, and basis sets)
	   Although I want the simple definition e.g. what LANL2DZ stands for, I'm expecting short paragraphs that your experimentalist (and computational scientist using FF) friends will   understand. 
           	   	
           Turn in everything in a Python notebook. 

